https://indieweb.org/2019_Recruitment_Email

Thank you for all the work you do as the Urban League.

Can you please share this link with your members and allies? 

We wanted to invite everyone to the IndieWeb Summit In Portland, Oregon June 29th-30tth.
https://2019.indieweb.org/summit

As a teacher working in tech for the last dozen years I know getting folks onto their own personal website is often the first steps into the industry,

We can not make the mistakes of the past and only let the web reflect the privileged few.

Please help us fight for a corporate alternative that provides space for all  to grow.

---
As the premier computer science program in #PDX we wanted to invite you and your students to IndieWeb summit 2019.

This event held at Mozilla PDX will provide opportunities for students to work with web developers and engineers trying to take back our online lives from the corporate web.

Students will get to attend a free two-day conference. the first day is an unconference focused on web standards and personal sites. The second day is a hack day where you or your students can work on a project of choice.

This is an amazing opportunity not for your students to see how web standards get created but also to take the time to craft their own websites. If you do not tell your own story who will?

Hope to see you there,
Greg 
---
Debera,

As computer science instructors as a community college, you fight every day to overcome the bias in the tech world.

One way we believe we can help diversify the tech industry in Portland is to encourage students to maintain and build their own websites.

You can not challenge the dominant narrative without writing your own. Get a website and start building personal skills and a network of marginalized people in computer science. 

To this end, we would like to invite you and all your students to the IndieWeb Summit. Please share this event with all your students.

They will have two days to work with some of the top researchers and engineers in the field. Day One is an unconference and Day Two is a hack day. All ages are welcome. Parents may bring children as activities will be provided.

This is a 100% free conference and we try to raise enough money to cover all meals. Anyone who attends can leave with a website they built.

Hope to see you and your students there,
Greg
---
Thank you for your interest in the Summit. I think the lessons your org can tame away can be great.

We need to double down our efforts in STEM education with students of color and we firmly believe the best way to start is to get more people to finish the sentence, "My url is.."


As we discussed on Twitter it is a two day event and we will have keynotes and intros. We are hoping these are captioned which will help with Spanish translation.

You and your team are welcome to register using the link I DMed.

Another option, if you wanted to run a program simply providing a space for remote attendees.

Anyone who wants a website, wants to improve their site or learn some cool tech should join us. 

By the way I cc'd the co-founders and organizers of the event.

---
Hello all,

I am hoping you can share this link and many of you are willing to join us for the 9th annual IndieWeb Summit: https://2019.indieweb.org/summit

---
Hello all,

I wanted to invite everyone and your students to IndieWeb Summit Jun 29-30th. This two-day event is great for educators who want to help take back the web.

If you are interested in how we read, write, and participate than IndieWeb Summit is for you.

This two-day free conference is designed to take teachers who have never been online before and encourages them to build their own websites.

We need every student to finish the sentence, "My url is..."

Our students deserve teachers trained in digital literacies and there is no better way to begin than by maintaining your own website.

Hope to see you there,
Greg
---
