https://indieweb.org/Indieweb_for_Education/WPCampus2019proposal

An IndieWeb related talk proposal for [https://wpcampus.org/ WP Campus 2019]
https://2019.wpcampus.org/call-for-speakers/application/ - submission deadline May 5

The general goal is to introduce the idea of IndieWeb as an extension of [[DoOO]] into the Education/WordPress space. Feedback towards this is welcome, particularly to get it over the potential hump of camp organizers who also won't know the general concept either. 


== Title ==
Dramatically extending a Domain of One's Own with IndieWeb technology: How to improve your online research notebooks, commonplace books, and digital pedagogy

== Session description ==
(This description will be edited and used on the website. Please include 1-2 paragraphs and a list of key takeaways for the audience.)

Having a Domain of One's Own and using it as a "thought space" to own your online identity and work is just the tip of the iceberg. Can you imagine how useful it would be if you could use your Twitter account to reply to someone on Facebook (without need a Facebook account) or vice versa? Open web technology from the IndieWeb movement that utilizes simple plugins, modules, or even built-in functionality now exists so that people can now use WordPress, Drupal, WithKnown, Grav and many other content management systems on any domain name to have rich site-to-site communications in a simple and intuitive way. Third party (and often unethical) corporate platforms are no longer needed to have rich interactions between scholars on the web.

It is now easily possible to have a teacher write a post on their own website and their students to easily reply/react to that post on their own websites (along with a useful reply context) and send that reply to the teacher's website for possible display. Each participant can now own a copy of both sides of the conversation. 

* Teachers and students will learn how to (individually or together) collect, analyze, write, collaborate, and interact easily online while doing so in a space they own and control without giving away their data to third party platforms.
* Researchers can now easily bookmark, highlight, or annotate portions of the web and keep this data (public/private) on their own website (aka digital commonplace book or notebook) for future reference or use.
* We'll show how courseware can be decentralized so that the instructor and the students each own their own pieces of the learning processes and can keep them for as long as they wish.
* We will demonstrate how one can use their WordPress-based website with a few simple plugins to own all of the traditional social media types (bookmarks, items read, highlights, annotations, comments/replies, photos, status updates, audio, checkins, etc.) on their own site while still allowing interacting (if desired) with other websites as well as in social spaces like Twitter, Instagram, Swarm, etc.
* We will demonstrate a new generation of free feed readers that allow composing in-line responses and reactions that post them directly to one's own website as well as send notification to the site being read and interacted with.

You can now have the joy of a Domain of Your Own and still easily interact just as if your site were a (better-than) first class social media platform.


== More Information About Your Session ==
Please describe your session in greater detail for the organizers. You may be more casual in this description as it will not be posted on the website.

In some sense, this session will be a crash course on using IndieWeb technologies and building-blocks with WordPress in the Education space. I'll aim to remove a lot of technical jargon and keep coding examples to a bare minimum (if using any at all) so that those with the technical ceiling of downloading and installing a plugin can immediately benefit from the talk. I will also provide enough pointers and describe the broad outlines that developers will have a broad overview of the IndieWeb space to find and extend these plugins and functionality if they wish.

I'll be covering the basics of new W3C recommendations like Webmention, Micropub, and WebSub along with forthcoming specs like Microsub in combination with IndieAuth (a version of OAuth2 for login). I'll show how they can be applied to personal websites in research, teaching, collaboration, and other educational domains like creating Open Educational Resources. Many of these can be easily implemented in WordPress with just a handful of simple plugins that allow the web to become the social media platform we all wish it would be.

I'll use examples from my own personal website and several others (which use Drupal, WithKnown, Grav, etc.) to show how these plugins can be used in educational settings and will walk through a case study of a course built using DoOO and IndieWeb philosophies and technologies (EDU 522: Digital Teaching and Learning at Southern Connecticut State University) on which I collaborated with Dr. Gregory McVerry.


== Tell us about your experience in the subject and past speaking engagements. ==
Professional speaking experience isn't required, but pass along any recent or relevant history. If multiple speakers, please include information for everyone, including whether or not you've presented together before.

I've been a leader and organizer within the IndieWeb community for more than 5 years and have not only a strong grasp of its many moving parts, but how they all dovetail within the WordPress ecosystem. 

I've also previously spoken at WordCamp Santa Clarita Valley (2019), WordCamp Riverside (2018), DrupalCamp Los Angeles (2015), and led over 6 sessions at several IndieWebCamps (using a BarCamp format). I've done a variety of short presentations/lightning talks at local WordPress meetups and the Reynolds Journalism Institute's Dodging the Memory Hole Conference over the past several years.

In the past, I've taught several lecture courses at Johns Hopkins University within the Film and Media Studies Program. I also spent 5 years building and maintaining their early efforts on the social web including their primary and many subsidiary presences on Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, Google+, LinkedIn, etc.

* https://2019.santaclarita.wordcamp.org/sessions/#wcorg-session-1083
* https://2018.riverside.wordcamp.org/sessions/#wcorg-session-1097
