https://indieweb.org/User%3ATantek.com/Twitter

Capturing some support request test I have submitted, in case it helps


2018-232 8/20

https://help.twitter.com/forms/general?subtopic=suspended

My private twitter account was inexplicably locked. I use it infrequently for private messages with a limited set of friends, and certainly did not violate any Twitter rules. I am unable to provide a phone number because I do not have one. Please unlock my account and make a note that I do not have a phone number so the account should never ask me for one, regardless of the situation. Thank you for your prompt attention to this matter!

----

2018-237 8/25

to unlock @t_silos:

My private twitter account that I use for occasional capturing of Shazams and other similar posts was inexplicably locked. I use it infrequently with a limited set of friends, and certainly did not violate any Twitter rules. I am unable to provide a phone number because I do not have one. Please unlock my account and make a note that I do not have a phone number so the account should never ask me for one, regardless of the situation. Thank you for your prompt attention to this matter!

Unlocked 2018-238 8/26 20:12:

Hello,

Your account is now unlocked, and we’re sorry for the inconvenience.
 
Twitter has automated systems that find and remove automated spam accounts and it looks like your account got caught up in one of these spam groups by mistake. This sometimes happens when an account exhibits automated behavior in violation of the Twitter Rules (<nowiki>https://twitter.com/rules</nowiki>).

Again, we apologize for the inconvenience. Please do not respond to this email as replies will not be monitored.

Thanks,

Twitter Support

----

<!-- 

draft to unlock @Falcon 2018-274 10/1
My Twitter account that I use for my very limited user Twitter client was inexplicably locked. I know I've used it only very rarely, and certainly did not violate any Twitter rules. I am unable to provide a phone number because I do not have one. Please unlock my account and make a note that I do not have a phone number so the account should never ask me for one, regardless of the situation. Thank you for your prompt attention to this matter! 

was unlocked 2018-276 10/3 18:44 - per email

was apparently locked again 2018-277 10/4 - tried logging in. new support request:

I got an email from Twitter support Case# 94726074 last night at 6:44pm PDT saying my @Falcon account is unlocked, and apologizing. When I went to login today, I was immediately redirected to an "Your account has been locked." page. I literally did nothing with my account since it was unlocked last night so I am very confused about why was it locked again?  I am unable to provide a phone number because I do not have one. Please unlock my account and make a note that I do not have a phone number so the account should never ask me for one, regardless of the situation. Thank you for your prompt attention to this matter! 



draft to unlock @t 2018-277, it was suspended the night before 20:04 PDT:

I noticed this morning when I logged in that my account was suspended, and I had received two emails from Twitter last night at 8:04pm PDT that my account had been suspended, for supposedly "Violating rules against hateful conduct", and second for "Violating rules against evading permanent suspension". There is nothing hateful, threatening, or harassing in any of my tweets or in my profile! @t is my primary public account for me personally. I do have separate project-specific accounts that represent communities, software, or standards, and some of those I share with others that work on those projects. I have not created a new account for a new project in many months however so I am very confused about both of these suspension emails. Please take a look at my tweets and note that they are positive or benign, with perhaps a few criticisms of technology here and there, all of which is well within both Twitter rules, and what I believe is general positive online behavior. Please unsuspend my @t account ASAP! Thank you very much for your attention to this matter.

-->
